              Installation Instructions for the WIP Manual

    There are two versions of the WIP manual.  One is electronic and
    the other has been written using LaTeX.  The electronic version
    is available on the World Wide Web at the URL address:
    "http://bima.astro.umd.edu/wip/manual/wip.html".
    One may also download a PostScript version of the file from the
    WIP home page at the WWW URL: "http://bima.astro.umd.edu/wip/".

    Instructions for printing and building a paper copy of the manual
    comprise the rest of this message.

    The WIP manual has been written using LaTeX.  There should be, in
    this directory, a PostScript file of the entire manual (including
    figures) called wip.ps.  (It may be compressed, in which case, the
    file name will be wip.ps.gz.  Use 'gunzip wip.ps.gz' to return it
    to the uncompressed state.)  If wip.ps is not present, the manual
    can be rebuilt from the files in this directory.  If you do not
    have LaTeX available and the PostScript file is not available,
    contact Jim Morgan at morgan@astro.umd.edu for further information
    (or use the World Wide Web URL address above to read it online).

    If all you want is the PostScript version, then just print out the
    file wip.ps.  There are currently about 155 pages in the manual.

    If you do not have a PostScript printer, or if the PostScript file
    is not present, you can use the various dvi-programs to rebuild it.
    It can then be printed on whatever printer you have available.
    The wip.dvi file is the most recent version of the manual (with
    the figures NOT automatically included; see below).  To print the
    manual from the wip.dvi file, use your local dvi- to printer command.

    If you need to generate the file wip.dvi, you need to run the
    command "latex wip" a couple of times (to make sure the page/section
    references are correct).  The file wip.ind has been included for
    sites that do not have the program makeindex (or equivalent).
    The file wip.ind was generated from wip.idx and is the most
    recent version of the index for the manual.  [Do not remove or
    replace the file wip.ind unless you know what you are doing.]

    Since the WIP manual contains figures and there is no standard way
    for LaTeX to include figures, I have tried to accommodate the most
    standard method: PostScript.  Even still, this method may not work
    on your printer.  There are alternatives.

    The default method is to print the manual directly as described
    above.  This will produce a manual without any plots but will have
    pages directing where the figures should appear.  At this point,
    either print the compressed PostScript files (see above on how to
    uncompress them) in the directory Examples or, if you have built WIP,
    use WIP to generate the figures using the script wip.csh in the
    Examples subdirectory (or use the command "make examples" in this
    directory).  The pages may then be substituted or cut-and-pasted in
    place.  If the printing device is not PostScript, then you should
    look at the file Examples/wip.csh and see how to change the plotting
    device accordingly.  Also, in order for the script to work properly,
    it requires that WIP has already been built and is either in your
    executable path or can be identified (again, look at Examples/wip.csh).

    The other alternative is the one used to generated the PostScript
    file in this directory.  It requires that you have the Radical Eye
    Software's program dvips (we are running dvipsk 5.58f).  If so,
    then you may be able to include the figures directly in the
    document.  Modify the file wip.tex so that the variable \doplot is
    set to true (change \doplotfalse to \doplottrue) and then run the
    command "latex wip" a couple of times (to get the page number
    references correct). Then, when you use dvips, the figures will
    be automatically inserted in the document.  If this fails,
    change \doplot back to false (\doplotfalse), rerun LaTeX, and
    then print the manual and figures as described above.
